section_no,question_no,question_text,answer1_text,answer2_text,answer3_text,answer4_text,correct_answer_no,recommendation_text
1,1,How much does a typical college student spend on textbooks?,$ 415,$ 500,$ 1000,$250,1,The National Association of College Stores reports that students spent an average of US $415 each on required course materials during the 2018-2019 school year. The College Board says students should budget $1240 annually for books and supplies.Several factors make course materials so expensive. There’s not much competition in the textbook industry. Just five publishers control about 80% of the textbook market and two of those announced plans in May 2019 to merge by early 2020. Students have little choice in the materials they purchase since content is usually assigned by professors.
1,2,What's the form you have to fill out to apply for college financial aid from the federal government?,Government College Aid Form (GCAF),Free Allpication for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA),Federal Student Loan Application (FSLA),Financial Aid Application (FAA),2,FAFSA is the starting point not only for government-sponsored loans and grants but also for state aid and merit awards from colleges and universities. You can fill out the form online at www.fafsa.ed.gov.
1,3,Is it worthwhile for a higher-income family to submit financial aid forms?,Yes,No,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,Maybe,1,Absolutely. Even if your family isn't likely to receive need-based aid submitting student aid forms often opens doors to finding merit-based aid. Several states offer sizable scholarships to residents who attend state colleges and have good high school grades or scores-regardless of financial need.
1,4,To whom does the "you" refer to on the FAFSA?,Parent,Family,Student,School,3,The "you" referred to throughout the form refers to the student only. That can get confusing because the form asks for both the student's and parent's information as well as that of the student's spouse (if applicable). Parents entering their own information-say their Social Security number-instead of their student's will stall the application.
1,5,You won't be eligible for need-based aid if you saved money in a 529 college-savings plan.,True,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,It depends,False,4,Money in 529 accounts factors into the financial aid formula but it doesn't disqualify your child. The accounts are considered parental assets. Up to 5.6% of the savings in the accounts are factored into the amount parents are expected to pay toward a child's education. If grandparents own the 529 then the assets don't count in the financial aid formula.
1,6,If you receive merit-based aid or a scholarship and don't keep the money you saved in a 529 plan what are your options for using that money tax and penalty-free?,Transfer the 529 to another family member,Use the money for grad school,Either,There are no options,3,Money in a 529 account must be used for qualified college expenses. Otherwise withdrawals will be subject to a penalty and you'll have to pay taxes on the earnings portion of the withdrawal. To avoid taxes and penalties you could name another family member as beneficiary of the plan or let your child use the money for graduate school.
1,7,Which loan usually is the better deal?,Federal student loan,Student loan from a bank,Student loan from a private lender,Student loan from a freind,1,Federal student loans have a fixed rate offer flexible repayment terms and in some cases a government subsidy for part of the interest. Private-loan interest rates which are variable depend on the prime rate or other benchmarks as well as the borrower's credit rating. So it's best to max out the federal options first.
1,8,If you must borrow money for college which federal loan offers the best deal?,Perkins loan,PLUS loan for parents,Subsidized Stafford loan,Unsubsidized Stafford loan,3,The best option is a subsidized Stafford loan which has a 4.66% for the 2014-15 school year. This is lower than an unsubsidized Stafford loan or a PLUS loan for parents. A Perkins loan has a fixed 5% rate and is available to only the neediest students.
1,9,Under what circumstances can borrowers postpone repayment of their federal student loans?,If they can't find a full time job,If they go to grad school,If they are experienceing economic hardship,All of the above,4,You can defer payment on your federal loans if you find yourself in any of these circumstances. If you are employed but struggling you can lower payments by stretching out the loan term. These are more of the advantages of federal student loans.
1,10,You can write off student-loan interest on your federal tax return only if you itemize deductions.,True,False,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,It depends,2,You don't have to itemize to take advantage of this deduction. You can write off up to $2500 of student loan interest paid during the year assuming you are not being claimed as a dependent on your parents' tax return. This includes interest on private loans and loans taken out by parents. However the right to claim this deduction phases out at higher income levels.
2,1,This award is a need-based form of financial aid. This award allows you to find a job and work to earn your award. Just like any other job you are paid for the number of hours you work but you are restricted from working more than 19 hours per week or earning more than your award amount.,College Job,Career 4 college,The Extra Income Assiciation,Work Study,4,Work Study is the program that gives lower-class students jobs. It is a form of financial aid.
2,2,Colleges require how many years of math?,One and done baby,Most schools want students to have three years of math,if you have algerbra and geometry you're good,Four,2,Many colleges require you to take three years of math courses but this figure can vary depending on your intended major.
2,3,Your grades in high school will predict,How much money you will make,Your plans on Saturday night,Whether you will actually go to college,Whether you're smart or not,3,Your grades are of of the main figures colleges look at when reviewing applications.
2,4,Which of the following high school classes are considered advanced?,AP IB and ACT,SAT GRE and IB,AP IB and honors courses,All of them,3,AP or Advanced placement courses and IB or International baccalaureate courses are the most advanced you can take in high school.
2,5,What are Open Educational Resources?,Free classes,Free books,Reduced price courses,Reduced price textbooks,4,Colleges and universities have been active in promoting and developing affordable textbooks including Open Educational Resources more commonly known as OER. Open Educational Resources are educational materials — often in digital form — offered freely and openly for anyone to use. The use of OER has saved students around the world over a billion dollars and the vast majority of those savings have been reaped by students in the United States and Canada. Research has shown that students using OER do as well as or better than students using traditional course materials with even better results for less financially secure students.
2,6,What can I do to cut college costs?,Research the best loan,Nothing,Stop paying bills,Refinance my mortgage,1,If your assigned materials aren’t automatically charged to your tuition the student could shop around both online and in-store to find the best rate. Some students search one of the many cost comparison sites such as TextSurf available online. A student might also consider a digital or physical rental if the student doesn’t plan to use the material after the course ends. If the college or university offers access to textbooks through the library that’s a great place to save money. Most students who skip purchasing their course materials fear their grade will be negatively affected so it’s essential that these cost-saving opportunities alongside the option of open textbooks are available to students.
2,7,What type and how many classes do colleges want you to have? Think subjects and kinds of classes?,As many as they'll let me take,As few as they'll let me take. It depends,4 years of English,3 years of Math and 3 years of science,4, Take classes that you think will help you in your intended field of study. This usually includes math and science classes but remember that the time an mney you spend in college is an investment (of subject matter knowledge) in your future.
2,8,In preparing for college the college process you should sign up for what 3 accounts?,Instagram,Common App Account Collegeboard Account Fastweb Account,FAFSA,Collegeprep pro account,2,These three accounts will help you manage your college classes and scedule.
2,9,question2_1,answer1,answer2,answer3,answer4,3,xxx
2,10,question2_1,answer1,answer2,answer3,answer4,3,xxx
3,1,Under what circumstances can borrowers postpone repayment of their federal student loans?,If you can’t find a full-time job,If you Declare bankruptcy,All of the above,If you're broke,2,If you declare banckpruptcy you are no longer required to pay of your debt and your bank seizes you collateral and assets.
3,2, If a late payment is sent to a collections agency how long will it remain on your credit history even if you have paid it off?,Less than a year,1-3 years,3-5 years,5+ years.,4,A payment is sent to a collections agency if you fail to pay your monthly repayment bill for may consecutive months. A collections agency can sue you for the money owed and make a note in your credit score.
3,3,What is the formula for calculating your net worth?,Assets plus liabilities,Liabilities minus assets,Assets minus liabilities,Assets divided by liabilities,3,xxx
3,4,Imagine that the interest rate on your savings account was 1% per year and inflation was 2% per year. After one year would your ability to buy something with the money in this account be:,More than today,Exactly the same,Less than today,All of the above,c,xxx
3,5,Which of the following about federal student loans is not true?,For certain federal-loan programs the interest on your loans is paid for by the federal government while you are in school and during grace periods,Your parents must sign a promissory note before loan funds are distributed,Entrance loan counseling for all first-time borrowers is required,You will have to pay back your student loans even if you do not complete your degree or find employment after college,2,xxx
3,6,If you have too many credit cards what should you do?,Close as many as possible,Request a higher credit limit,Be cautious about closing cards,Close cards with the lowest balances,3,xxx
3,7,As a general rule how many months’ expenses do financial planners recommend that you set aside in an emergency fund?,1 to 3 months’ expenses,3 to 6 months’ expenses,6 to 12 months’ expenses,12 to 15 months’ expenses,3,xxx
3,8,If you don't owe taxes you won't be penalized for filing your federal income tax return after Tax Day,True,Maybe,False,Neither,1,The penalty for missing the filing deadline is a percentage of the tax owed with the return. If the IRS owes you there is no penalty. Taxpayers who have refunds coming really don't have to worry about the deadline. Of course the sooner in the year you file the sooner you'll get your tax return in your pocket.
3,9,Are contributions to a traditional 401(k) plan deducted from your salary before or after taxes?,After,Neither before nor after,Before,Both,3,Your traditional 401(k) contributions are made before taxes reducing the amount of income Uncle Sam can get his hands on. Because 401(k)s are tax-deferred investment plans you don't pay taxes on earnings now but you will have to pay when you withdraw your money in retirement. If your boss offers a Roth 401(k) and you contribute you put in after-tax dollars but all contributions and their earnings come out tax free in retirement.
3,10,Investing in a load fund is more expensive but performance is better than no-load funds over the long term,True,False,It depends,Neither,2,A load is a sales charge levied by the fund. If you invest $1000 in a fund with a 4% load for example only $960 goes to work for you; the other $40 goes to the fund often to be passed on to an adviser who sold the fund. Studies have shown that on average load funds perform no better than the cheaper no-load funds. In fact when you include the cost of the load they may even under-perform over time.
3,11,How high must your FICO credit score be for you to qualify for the best interest rates?,600,650,700,750,4,A credit score in the mid-700s usually will allow you to qualify for the best rates (a quarter of adults have scores from 750 to 799). This numerical summary of how much you owe and how promptly you pay your bills affects not only your ability to get a loan—and at what interest rate—but also can play a role in how much you'll pay for insurance.
3,12,You can invest in only one 529 college savings plan per child,True,False,Both,Neither,2,There is no law limiting the number of 529 plans you can invest in to save for a college education. Sometimes investing in more than one is a good idea.
3,13,Overseas stocks are hot. You change your allocation from 10% to 80% of your portfolio.,Smart move!,What was I thinking?,That was pretty good,That was neither good nor bad as it depends if I had made money from this,2,Chasing big returns is often a losing game because the good times don't last forever. You'd have to know the right time to sell—but no one knows for certain when a sector's had its run. The best investing strategy is a well-diversified one.
3,14,You and your spouse bought a house for $100k in 2000 and sold it for $500k this year. It was your primary residence. How much will you owe in capital-gains taxes?,$100k ($400k profit + 25% tax rate),$60k ($400k profit + 15% tax rate),$0,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,3,As long as you've owned the house and lived there for at least two out of the past five years married couples can exclude up to $500k in home-sale profits from taxes ($250k for single filers).
3,15,A health savings account is ...,The same as a flaxible spending account,An insurance plan,A way to cut costs if you have a high-deductible insurance plan,A plan under medicare,3,Health savings accounts let people with high-deductible health insurance policies make tax-deductible contributions to a special account that they can use tax-free for eligible medical expenses such as for health insurance deductibles co-payments prescription drugs and other out-of-pocket health-care costs. You can't make new contributions after you enroll in Medicare but you can also use the money tax-free after age 65 to pay premiums for Medicare Part B Part D and Medicare Advantage plans. There's no time limit for using the money in an HSA.
3,16,If an investor age 25 deposits $100 a month in a mutual fund with an annualized return of 10% a year he'll have about $640k at age 65. If he waits until age 40 to start saving how much will he have to deposit each month to have the same amount at age 65? (Hint: It's a hefty sum.),$150,$3500,$875,$475,4,This shows the incredible power of compounding—the power of money making money for you. The saver who starts at 25 would deposit a total of $48k of his own money; the procrastinator would need to come up with $142k out of pocket to have the same amount at age 65.
3,16,When do you need to start taking required minimum distributions from Roth IRAs?,When you retire,At 65,At 70,Never,4,Unlike traditional IRAs which require you to take your first required minimum distribution by April 1 of the year after the year you turn 70 1/2 you never need to take required distributions from Roth IRAs.
3,17,Which of these expenses can you write off on your federal tax return if you don't itemize?,Charitable expenses,Medical expenses,Mortgage expenses,Student loan interest,4,You can deduct up to $2.5k a year of interest paid on student loans regardless of whether you itemize deductions. But this tax saver phases out at higher income levels: A single filer with a modified adjusted gross income of more than $70k (or a couple filing jointly with a MAGI of more than $140k) gets a reduced deduction. At $85k for single filers (and $170k for joint filers) you no longer qualify for this break.
3,18,All income from mutual funds is subject to state income tax.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Some income paid by mutual funds gets a state-income-tax break just like income from government securities does. That’s because some money market mutual funds invest heavily in U.S. government obligations so a substantial portion of the income they pay during the year is state tax-free.
4,1,The total of outstanding student loans in the U.S. is now greater than:,2 Billion,99.9 Billion,1.6 Trillion,6.7 Trillion,3,The total outstanding student loans are 1.6 Trillion and growing!
4,2,What is the greatest category of U.S. debt?,Mortgage debt,Student loan debt,Credit card debt,bankruptcy,4,Mortgage debt is the largest category of debt in the U.S. with nearly 17 Trillion in outstanding loans!
4,3,What is the standard repayment scenario for repaying federal direct student loans?,Flat monthly payments over 10 years beginning 6 months after graduation,Graduated monthly payments over 10 years beginning 6 months after graduation,Minimum monthly payments for 25 years beginning at graduation,Flat monthly payments for 15 years beginning 9 months after graduation,1,The standard repayment procedure is flat payments over the course of 10 years with a 6 month gap after graduation.
5,1,What is usually the most important and unique part of your college application?,Your grades,Your test scores,Your completed classes,Your extracurricular activities,4,Your extracurricular activities are what set you apart from other applicants. Be sure to engage in activities outside of school that show your unique interests and skills.
6,1,A 529 savings plan allows you to save for future higher-education costs and simultaneously make a tax-advantaged investment.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,Contributions to 529 plans grow tax-deferred and qualified distributions are tax-free. By definition qualified 529 plan withdrawals include tuition fees books equipment and supplies. Room and board is also considered “qualified” if the student is enrolled at least half-time at a university or vocational school.
6,2,You must invest in the 529 savings plan of your home state.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Many 529 plans allow out-of-state investors. But sometimes there are advantages to choosing your home state plan such as matching grants and scholarships protection from creditors and exemption from state financial aid calculations. Several states offer a state income tax deduction only if you invest in your home state plan. However a few states (currently Arizona Kansas Missouri Montana and Pennsylvania) provide tax parity whereby you receive the state income tax deduction even if you contribute to an outside state’s plan. So if you live in a parity state — or a state with less-than-stellar 529 offerings — lower fees and superior historical investment performance may entice you to choose an out-of-state plan.
6,3,You will lose money if your child (the beneficiary) doesn’t go to college.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,The amount you initially contribute to a 529 plan can be withdrawn without penalty. Only the gain or appreciation is subject to income tax and a 10% penalty for non-qualified (“NQ”) distributions. Let’s suppose you contributed $50k to a 529 plan and the balance grew to $60k. You’d pay income tax and 10% penalty on the $10k gain of NQ distributions. Furthermore if your son or daughter will not be attending college you can transfer 529 funds to another family member without penalty. There is no age or income limit for a beneficiary.
6,4,If you open a 529 for your child - when it's time for him to choose a college - it will need to be in the state in which the account was opened.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Students can use 529 funds for any college or university eligible for Title IV federal student aid — in any state and even at many institutions outside the U.S. In addition students can attend certificate programs and vocational-technical school.
6,5,Parent- or student-owned 529 plans are treated as a parental asset in the financial aid calculation.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,A 529 plan balances impact the federal student aid calculation for need-based aid. Assets in accounts owned by a dependent student or one of their parents are considered parental assets on the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). When a school calculates the student's Expected Family Contribution (EFC) only a maximum of 5.64% of parental assets are counted. This is quite favorable compared with other student assets which are counted at 20%. A higher EFC means less financial aid award.
6,6,A grandparent cannot own a 529 plan for his or her grandchild.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Having a grandparent open and fund an account is good from an asset value perspective because assets of grandparents are not reportable on FAFSA. However distributions from a grandparent-owned 529 plan may be subject to reporting on the FAFSA as student income. Furthermore if the grandparent establishes a 529 plan for your child the grandparent maintains legal control of the account. He or she could change the beneficiary or use money in the plan for personal expenses (subject to income tax and 10% penalty on earnings).
6,7,Private College 529 is the only prepaid 529 plan not run by a state.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,Historically prepaid plans were state run and offered advanced tuition credits for in-state universities only. Now nearly 300 private colleges and universities in the U.S. have joined together to offer tomorrow’s tuition at today’s prices.
6,8,Unlike 529 savings plans a prepaid tuition 529 plan does not have market risk.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,One major benefit of a prepaid tuition plan over a 529 savings plan is the lack of market risk. The investment performance of a prepaid plan is measured by tuition inflation NOT how the stock market performs. Basically you buy tuition credits at a set price (typically a premium over the current cost of college) to be used for your child’s education years down the road.
6,9,True or false: Like a 529 plan the Coverdell Education Savings Account (ESA) offers tax-advantaged savings for college.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,The Coverdell ESA grows tax-free and funds can be used toward college costs. Certain K-12 expenses are also covered by the Coverdell ESA. Unlike the 529 plan there are income restrictions on Coverdell contributions and special rules for beneficiary changes.
6,10,Gifting money to children is more favorable than 529 plans from a financial aid and income tax perspective.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Historically gifts of money to children through Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA) accounts were considered the preferred method for college financing. However UGMA funds may be subject to the “kiddie tax” rules whereby the child is taxed at the parent’s higher income tax rate; 529 plans are not subject to a kiddie tax. Colleges also count UGMA accounts as a student-owned (rather than a parent-owned) asset in the financial aid calculation — resulting in a lower financial aid award.
7,1,A high GPA and strong test scores are the only things that really matter in a college admissions decision.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,College admissions committees are looking for well-rounded students who can bring diverse experiences into the classroom. Showcasing leadership qualities participation in extracurricular or volunteer activities and interest in hobbies can be just as important to your overall application as strong grades.
7,2,It's important to participate in as many extracurricular activities as possible during high school.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,While extracurricular activities are important for developing important qualities like teamwork and leadership take a "less is more" approach to your activities. Rather than try everything pick a few clubs or sports that you enjoy and work to maintain an active role throughout your high school years.
7,3,You may be eligible for in-state tuition at public schools outside of your home state.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,While there are some schools that make tuition affordable to out-of-state students many public colleges are still expensive for nonresidents. Public schools in some regions offer regional reciprocity agreements that allow students from neighboring states to take advantage of in-state tuition.
7,4,It's smart to reuse essays for multiple schools.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Many college admissions experts advise students to write unique application essays for each school. For each application be sure to demonstrate your interest and show why you would be a good fit for that particular college.
7,5,It's normal for students to transfer colleges during their first year.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,Changing preferences in academics athletics and location are all reasons students may choose to transfer colleges during or after their freshman year. In fact 13 percent of students finished their degree at a school other than their original four-year university according to a 2014 report by the National Student Clearinghouse Research Center. It doesn't mean you've failed or made the wrong decision. There are many resources for students who are thinking of transferring to a new college.
7,6,Since it's a preliminary test your score on the PSAT doesn't matter.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,While it's a warm-up to the SAT your PSAT score affects your eligibility for National Merit Scholarship Corporation awards which can lead to other college scholarship opportunities.
7,7,Applying early action or early decision can increase your chances of admission.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,Colleges are typically eager to accept students who are enthusiastic about attending. Submitting applications early to your first-choice college demonstrates commitment and also means you will be competing against a smaller applicant pool for an admissions spot.
7,8,Students should delete social media accounts to avoid making a bad impression when applying to college.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Social media can be an important part of your college admissions profile. Once you make sure your photos and content are appropriate and professional you can use your profiles to showcase your interests and talents. You can also use social media to reach out to current students and staff at your prospective colleges.
7,9,Applying to colleges takes a lot of time so it's OK to have a family member contact colleges for you.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Family members are great to turn to for proofreading your application essays or discussing financial aid but don't have them call colleges to ask questions on your behalf. Demonstrate maturity and leadership skills by attending interviews on your own and handling issues that arise in the application process yourself.
7,10,Colleges appreciate students who are proactive and follow up about their application after submission.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,Always follow up with schools to make sure your application was received experts say. Colleges deal with many applications so it's important to make sure yours isn't lost in the shuffle. This is also another opportunity to show you are serious in your interest.
7,11,A school's advertised tuition and fees are inclusive of all expenses students are likely to incur during college.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,Along with the sticker price of tuition and fees students must be prepared to pay for other expenses of being at college including meal plans textbooks and any necessary commuting costs. Make sure to consider these factors when building your college budget.
7,12,By the time senior year rolls around you should already have a list of the colleges where you want to apply.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,1,College may still seem far away as you enter your final year of high school but you should be well on your way to finalizing your application list. This will give you plenty of time to complete any campus visits and tailor your essays to specific schools.
7,13,College admissions staff prefer students get recommendation letters from principals or well-known teachers.,True,False,It depends,A conclusion cannot be made from the given information,2,It's important to get recommendations from teachers or coaches who know you well and can speak to your academic potential and personal character. Avoid recruiting the principal or a well-respected teacher if you don't have a good relationship with that person.
